Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to create the find matches function.
All right, so what is this fine matches is going to do, the fine matches is going to.
Let's go ahead and let's create and let's take a look at it.
So we are going to have a function that is going to say find matches, and this function is going to
take a a parameter called word to match.
Now, this word to match is going to be the word that the user types in, because that word should match
a specific word inside our list of cities and states.
Right.
And then we are going to pass in our cities.
States, right.
Right.
So I'm going to create this.
And what I'm going to do is I'm basically I'm going to say council log city states array and where do
we call it?
I'm going to call this find to find matches inside this display matches.
The reason for that.
I'm just going to remove this.
The reason for that is whenever the user either changes that input or there is a key up event, we want
to run this display matches and in turn it is going to call this function.
Right.
So here we are going to do is I'm just going to say find matches.
And as the argument I'm going to pass in cities, states.
So let's have it.
Let's come here.
So whatever I say and you can see that we have undefined here.
All right, so city states.
Find matches.
This is going to fire we have.
I'm just going to remove this part for now.
Let's save it, stay open and we get all this data.
So not whenever you type something.
It means that it is going to be a key up.
Or when I click away, you can see that we are still clicked in that this input.
So if I clicked away, you can see this event should fire one more time.
So click.
You can see the event is fire one more time.
It doesn't fire one more time.
It is basically this change event that is being fired.
So we have access to this find matches.
Our array inside this display matches now before going into displaying stuff.
What do we want to do?
How can we find out what the user has typed and how can we match it with our list?
Right.
So here, if I say cities, cities, states, dot city and let's save it and let's click.
And we do get undefined.
So let's run this.
Let's I'm just going to provide the zero index.
We should loop over then it is going to work, you can see that the end we are we get the New York and
if I do Tulsa, you can see that we get New York five times.
But if I just do this, if I hardcoded the index, it means that that New York is going to be hard coded
because that has an index of zero.
How do you know that?
If I just remove everything, save it, and if I just Tibey and if I come here, you can see that if
if we come to the first one, the very first city is going to be New York and state is also going to
be New York.
So we don't want to hardcoded.
So what do we want to do?
We want to filter this array.
So I'm going to cut this.
And I'm going to I'm going to face that here and we are going to say, Felter, what it is that we want
to filter.
So we are going to filter city state.
All right.
So whenever we faltered, we are looking for what it is that the user has stoped, so I'm going to put
in the word to match here as well because we are going to look for that as well.
So what are we going to do as a now?
Let's go ahead and let's think think about how we are going to implement this.
So first off, because if I just put anything inside of this, because there is no actual variable declaration,
we are not doing anything with this function, what do we want to do?
We want to return from this function.
OK, so what do we want?
Not not actually return from the function.
We want this function to return a filter that is applied on this array.
And what is this filter going to do?
This filter is going to grab our work to match and match it with that list of either cities or of the
properties for the cities or the properties for the states.
All right.
How do you do that?
So if I were to say, for example, let right.
Let's let's create a variable called place, I'm not going to specifically write city or state.
I'm just going to write place.
And now what we can do is we are going to grab this the filter variable, which is the city state.
Each time this filter runs, this variable is going to grab one index of this array.
All right, and let's see, let's pass a city, state, just say city, save it.
And what we can do is we can also consulate.
I want to go step by step so you can really understand what's happening here.
So if I say and can I read property filter of undefined.
All right, so we have city states, OK, so that's because of this one, I'm just going to cut that
and we should we could cut it, save it.
And if I say and you can see that we get this massive result.
All right.
And it's almost all of the cities that we have.
So this city, that city, state, that city is going to give us this the the city, if we change it
to state, it is going to give us the state.
So if I just type in and you can see that these are all the states, this has been repeated three times,
I think some of them have been repeated because a state has multiple cities.
That's why it has been repeated.
Right.
So.
This is how we can grab our city and our state and how can we apply that much?
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say return.
What do we want to return?
We want to return this place.
OK, so instead of doing that, I'm just going to say I'm going to remove that place as well.
So I'm going to return city.
State?
What city?
I was going to be our first side of this logical operator.
City, state.
That city, that match.
OK, and you know that this match is going to as going to a variable name or string literal containing
the regular expression pattern and flux.
So let's put in our regular expression now.
The flags are going to be iji because we want to look for the states, even even when they are lowercase
and the G is going to be global or is going to grab is going to grab all the occurrences of that.
So how can what what do we pass in here before passing anything there?
I just want to write our word to match here.
All right.
So if I write, for example, new here, what what would that mean?
It would mean that we are hard coding the new keyword.
All right.
We are not letting the user write something.
We don't we shouldn't hard code values.
All right.
But you can see that we have a variable called work to match.
If I were to put word to match here, then what it would do as this regular expression is going to match
this word word to match with whatever it is that the user has entered.
That is not something that we want as well.
And there is another way of creating regular expression that is going to come to rescue.
So I'm just going to create a variable and I'm going to call it Red X, and we are going to use the
new keyword that we have talked a lot.
And this is going to give us an object called regular expression.
Right.
And this regular expression function, what is this?
What is this going to accept?
It is going to accept the word that we are looking for or the word to match.
And the second argument is going to be our flag, so ideology doesn't really matter.
So that's what a guy.
Right.
And what I'm going to do is instead of writing MASH in here, I'm just going to write rejects.
Rejects.
All right.
So this is going to grab our work.
Too much is going to be the thing that the user puts.
And then we are going to match it with the city.
And when we find the match, we are going to print it.
We are going to return it.
Right.
So this is the city.
What about the state?
So we are going to say or city.
OK, city.
State.
Dot instead of city, we are going to say state and it is going to be the same regular expression write
checks.
All right.
So now we have called it right here, right.
And now we have let's go inside our Cancela and we are going to call our find.
I'm just going to call the find matches function, so what is the word that I want to match?
I want to match the new four New York and we need to pass in our cities Arreaza City State series.
I'm just going to copy it from here and I'm going to pass it right here.
And when I save it, OK, and find matches new and cities, we need to pass.
And I'm just going to call it.
I'm just going to come in this one out.
Actually, I'm going to delete it.
So this is going to be our first argument and this is going to be the second argument let's find now.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, it is defined matches and we are going to pass and both of them there.
So let's say find matches.
Find matches.
What is that?
And Passan, I'm just going to pass in new.
And in our cities, states, array.
And when I say it, you can see that we get 61 results for that, it means there are 61 cities and states
with the key word new inside of them.
If I were to, for example, write something that is not that often repeated, Tulsa.
And if I save it, you can see we get only one result.
And its city is Tulsa and city and state is Oklahoma.
But for this, you can see we have.
New York, but for the Albuquerque in the city, we don't have that new key word, so we should have
it inside the state.
So to wrap up this lecture, what we did here is whenever the user types a word, we're going to match
it against the city and against the state and we are going to return the result for the city or the
state.
So this expression is going to return.
True, if either one side of this boolean expression, this logical operator is true, and even if both
sides are true, then it is going to return.
True.
That's why we use the illogical or so grob this war to match Machard with the city or with the state.
You're going to return city or state or both of them.
In the case of New York, you can see that we have returned both of them.
In the case of this, in the case of Tulsa, we have returned only one, and that was city.
We have now returned.
You can see there is only one object within this this this array.
And that object only has a city property of Tulsa.
And you can see that Tulsa has a tier of capital, but we have insert city of lower case.
That's how our flag works.
And our flag has grabbed all the occurrences of that right here.
So now that we have successfully we have successfully implemented our word.
And what is the word that we are actually looking for?
Then in the next lecture?
What we are going to do is we are going to display all of our matches instead of this console to the
screen.
Right.
All right.
So that's it for this.
Let you see you guys in the next one.